The Twilit Paths (or Roads or Ways) are magical routes of travel that are out of time and place with the temporal world of mortals. Scholars are not certain (or in agreement) about the origins or nature of the Paths, but most agree that they are Otherworldly. Certainly they can lead to or from the realms of the Otherworld, as well as between locations in the material world.

The paths are outdoors, normally passing through wooded rolling hills lush with trees and plants. They are called twilit because they are usually lighted as if in twilight, or perhaps early dawn. There is no sun or moon in evidence, and they feel as if they are always in late summer, before the foliage colors, and there is no rain to disturb the fragrant, sometimes slightly misty air.

Travel along the Paths is difficult and perilous for mortals. The entrances and exits are hidden, and not all are known. Some appear as natural features, others seem to be located near ruins, holy sites, and monuments. Many of these established portals are warded or even guarded. There are also portals that are not stationary, and a few appear or vanish at seemingly random times, or on certain occasions. Sometimes the random occurrence of an entrance (or exit) brings forth wonders and encounters with denizens of the Otherworld or other wayfarers. Such wonders and encounters are possible within the Ways as well, and there is always a chance that travelers will become lost, or shift in time and find that more or less time has passed in the material world during their travels than expected.