The powerful storm [[Giants | giant]] [[Grundhar]] rules this harsh and frozen land of giants and similar kind. His rule is not unchallenged, however, and heavy sits the crown on his head. Ghormhun Gar refers both to the lands he controls (a substantial kingdom over varied territory, with access to the sea via a wide river). To his north are the icy wastes where unruly and often hostile frost giants dwell, along with other fierce and terrible creatures. To his far west are the <…?> mountains, the abode of dragons, stone giants, and worse. In and around his land are the petty domains of ettins, trolls, etc. [[Orcs]] intrude from the southwest, as do their rival hobgoblins. To the south and east the [[Dwarves]] persist, seldom directly invading or warring with Grundhar’s folk, but always jealous of their lands and the mines beneath them, and often encroaching on Grundhar’s realm in search of precious metals and minerals.

Few humans dwell in these lands. There are some settlements, permanent trading ports or posts with small but sustainable populations. The storm giants tolerate them as long as they stay within certain bounds, pay the exorbitant taxes and tributes to the king and his nearby vassal kin, and do not raise armies or significant fortifications. The storm giants are not evil and are generally just and fair lords to those with leave to dwell on their lands. Other humans occasionally foray into the lands. [[Aelsh]] raiders sneak in from the south and east. [[Maluti]] hunters sometimes stalk the rich plains of the eastern shorelands and frozen bogs. [[Vanur | Vanuran]] longships raid shorelands and up rivers, and have even been known to establish outposts on rare occasions. None of those have fared well for long; the wrath of storm giants is generally irresistible, even by the doughty [[Vanur]].