Old Rhendar is a lost realm, a dying kingdom with many ruins and dark dangers. The dead return from the grave to haunt or harrow old acquaintances. It has some occupants, most of whom are peasants and minor nobles with few remaining ties to the peerage of Rhendar. If life in Rhendar is difficult, life in Old Rhendar is existence just above the subsistence level. Impoverished villagers eke out the barest living amidst an overall atmosphere of decay, drear, and dread. Hardened brigands and raiders rove the land, picking over the remains of a once prosperous kingdom. Warg-riding orcs from the mountains and valleys of the northwest, trolls, ogres, giants of varying disposition, are occupying mountain caves and ruins and pressing the remaining people to huddle near poorly garrisoned keeps or to flee the land.

Old Rhendar has a dark past. The “old kings” were monarchs before the ancestors of the current Rhendaran monarchy sailed into Karvan Bay six centuries before present day. The old kings were a grim lot, and prayed to dark gods. Some tales tell of necromancy and demon worship. Whatever truth lies in the legends, the Valley of Great Kings invokes horror in all who hear its name. Only fools would dare tread the shrouded forests and shadowed valleys approaching the Valley; only those whose soul is already lost walk the ruins and catacombs themselves.

The influence of the necromantic past has permeated the land. The dead have a tendency to walk among the living. While not all of these spirits are hostile to their former acquaintances, they are usually disturbing. The people of Old Rhendar (as well as many of the people of Rhendar) have adopted a tradition of burning their dead instead of burying them. The clerics and mages of Rhendar are practiced at dealing with undead and with necromancers of varying degrees. Even the peasants, artisans, and warriors are relatively knowledgeable regarding defense and survival in a land where zombies, ghouls, ghosts, etc. pose as great a threat as other monsters.

Storms are frequent and enduring on this exposed rocky point of land far to the east of nearly everything on the continental mainland. Stormhold is the location of Storm Hall, the stronghold of the Storm household. The Storms have dwelt here for four generations. The first Lord Storm was the bastard son of a Kaelish lord and an Aldran slave.

He made his fortune as a sea raider for some time, until he became too dangerous to keep near the Kaelish homelands of his adopted clansmen.

Homeless, Storm set up a raiding base on one of the more habitable isles in the Dragon’s Teeth and increased his fame (or notoriety) and fortune. As he raided, he learned that the population along the coast of Old Rhendar was scarce, and that it was nearly defenseless. With a force of nearly two hundred raiders, mostly bachelor Kaels and their bondsmen, he seized a strong but nearly deserted keep at Cormrach Mor, now called Stormhold, and from there he conquered and now the Storms hold are lords of a large (if unrecognized) fiefdom in the desolate east of Old Rhendar.

Storm Hall (Cormrach Mor) is a formidable castle built atop and into the rocky heights of Stormhold. The castle’s roots go deep; the previous lords of the Cormrach dug deeply, all the way down to the water, making use of the natural caves and passages to create a significant underground complex. Part of this complex is dedicated to the interment of the dead lords and ladies of the old household, and the catacombs and crypts are labyrinthine and well protected by natural barriers, magical wards, and mechanical traps. Other parts of the underground are functional parts of the keep — storage, prisons, armories, workshops, etc. — or of the harbor below.

The harbor itself is remarkable. Much of it is sheltered inside a large hollow cavern. People from the castle can use various stairs and passages (and one freight elevator) to reach this cavern. The Storms use this defensible grotto to build and provision their considerable fleet. A large chain curtain acts as a gate for watercraft, preventing invasion of the castle from below. Battlements and other fortifications in the cliffs above house ballistae and other war engines. Defenders can rain arrows, bolts, stones, and fire on attacking or intruding vessels confined between the stone breakwater and the promontory cliffs.

[[Aldran Age Campaign Sourcebook]]