**Note:** *Originally from handwritten notes, c. 2004-2005*

In my view of the world, characters cannot rise in ability and power (i.e., level) without commitment, and that commitment will require relationships with peers, mentors, organizations, rulers, deities, etc. For example, [[Magicians]] and [[Sorcerer]] must learn from their masters, and forever incur obligations to those masters and to any orders they choose to join. [[Thieves]] must learn the greatest skills from guild masters, and master [[Thieves | thieves]] are the masters at tying strings to their pupils. [[Cleric]] are obviously committed to honoring their deities and their religious organizations. The more powerful the [[Cleric | Cleric]] becomes, the closer to the deity and the higher in the order he or she grows. [[Ranger]] and [[Paladin]] can belong to formal orders, or will learn their craft from others who deserve continued loyalty, if not a certain period of fealty. Even the [[Fighters]] and [[Rogue]] must eventually seek the skill in the craft that only a few masters hold, and these masters tend to want more than money before they impart their wisdom and ability to young braves. In tact, many rulers are wary of letting magic, religion, or armed skill pass from masters to students without exerting some control of their own on such dangerous influences.

In another sense, characters incur responsibility or at least reap the consequences of their heroic exploits. As they become more famous (or notorious), they are more likely to be sought after by Powerful interests. Some of these interests will desire their services, and more relationships and obligations will result from such transactions. Other interests will find the actions of adventurers inconvenient, and will seek to thwart or eliminate them. Long-term enmity is often a- consequence of a job well done (no good deed will ever go unpunished in my campaign). As some characters give in to the desire to become the rulers and masters of their profession and culture, their responsibilities will be a- constant burden. However, those very responsibilities may provide ample adventure in their own right. This is a fantasy milieu, after all.

[[Aldran Age Campaign Gamemaster's Notebook]]