#Status/Mining

Magic is an innate power in those with the talent. The skill to use such power requires training, but the basic power (and its effects on resistance rolls, etc.) is innately present in the gifted. Not all gifted know they are so, and not all become practitioners. Good and evil powers alike, however, seek those gifted, which provides an element of dramatic conflict for the campaign. Some items (such as magic armor, swords, etc.) are keyed to work best for those with talent. Correspondingly, some have been created to work against those with talent, skilled or otherwise. Those with power, and the skill to use it, can develop a sense of the talent in others (as a skill). The distances and precision of such detection will vary, and certain places or objects can enhance or obscure talent. Because magic talent is innate only in a very few individuals (among humans), and only a few of those with talent survive and are selected for training, the number of powerful magic users is very small.

Dark (or negative) magic is the destructive sort, used to subtract the cohesion of matter, to harm souls, to invest the dead with undead power, etc. It is not inherently evil in nature, although many consider its use more perilous to magic practitioners than light (positive) magic. Among the more ethically constrained orders the knowledge tends to be restricted. Elves, whose very being is imbued with magic, cannot use negative magic at all. They are sensitive to it, and its presence is anathema to them

Wizard orders are formed around one or more schools of magic and each order contributes to or runs a college of magic, which serves as a school for new magic users and acts as a repository for the secret spell lists of the order. While the magic orders guard their secrets carefully, many have spells in common — usually the lower-level and more common spells. Note that even if the spells themselves are similar, their incantations and their manifestations may differ slightly.

The orders are lead by five to seven elder masters. The orders maintain councils of various sorts, to conduct research or carry out various tasks. All of the wizardly orders are intent on recruiting those with good talent and potential ability. Promising candidates serve a term as initiates, and then apprentice to a full wizard. This apprenticeship can last for years; until the apprentice passes a series of trials. The trials are something a council must agree they are ready to undertake, and which can happen after several levels of experience. During apprenticeship, magic users are often encouraged to seek out adventures, or are sent along on missions and quests with other professions.

Magic should be wondrous. As such, it should not be commonplace: no spells or magic items for sale at local markets and shoppes, and wizards don't exist in every hamlet. On the other hand, I do not want magical austerity, so spells and casters there shall be, and magic swords are in hidden places to be found. There are magical sites and magical sights to behold, and various creatures are imbued with magic.

Using magic poses some risk for spell users. Wild magic for sorcerers is already a phenomenon, but what risk do wizards, druids, clerics and so forth have at stake? I really do not want to change the rules system at this juncture, but I want to make characters (and their players) to feel that magic is significant and requires judgment and responsibility to use. As it happens, I'm happy with the idea of wild magic for sorcerers, although it would be fun at some point to make the effects table more milieu-specific. I just need to come up with something for wizards and other more deliberate and studied users. At the very least, I will make PCs learn that magic is not used without consequences. I will attempt to do that over time, as they advance in power and scope and become more known to adversaries and to those in political or religious power.

The rationale for limited magic is that it is, even for wizards, an innate talent. A gift, if you will, although not all so endowed would consider it a gift. So, most people, especially most humans, dwarves, and halflings do not have the ability to use magic. Even among the non-human and demi-human races, where some members are touched by magic, the manifestations of those traces rarely convey the power to control and use magic such as in the form of spells. The use of spells therefore requires a rare and specific talent. It also requires a certain amount of skill, particularly if it is to be used without unpredictable consequences.

I want to consider giving elves, gnomes, and [[Duergar|duergar]] some innate magical ability; to a lesser extent, I might extend this to [[Half-Elves|half-elves]] and even elf-blooded. How to account for this in the game system? I could give members of those races the Magic Initiate feat as a racial trait (PHB p. 168). I might also give [[Elves|elves]] and [[Duergar|duergar]] +1 on spell save DC and attack rolls. High elven spell-casters could have extra spells: 1 cantrip, 1 first level, and one second level spell (perhaps from a particular class, such as wizard). I will have to decided whether to offset these traits by eliminating some others for purposes of game balance.

So very few magic users of any sort are above fifth level; fewer still are those who have reached tenth level. These would be wizards, sorcerers, clerics, druids and so on of some reputation, perhaps even renown. Of course, some might not be less well regarded, but still powerful. Those spell-casters who rise above tenth level would be the stuff of legends. Of course, PCs might achieve such greatness, but then, that is the whole point.

Thus, it should be reasonably feasible for PCs, at low levels, to get some healing, succor, and even assistance from a few amenable spell-casters (in exchange for services and the odd bit of treasure, of course). However, the resurrection of a PC would be nearly impossible. Many learned scholars might even believe that wizards and clerics capable of such feats are either a thing of the past, or were myths to begin with.

Wizards and sorcerers have some issues. Wizards tend to like magic to be a scholarly matter of study with judicious and controlled application through studied expertise.

Sorcerers, as a rule, do not.

This situation is particularly true in certain schools of wizardry. The wizard character class, by the way, is somewhat separate from the professions of wizardry typical in the Kialti and Danaran cultures and among the Aldrans. There is some complexity there that I have not completely unpacked.

Druids, bards, and some clerics of Danaran and Kialti deities have some interesting and complex organizational and professional relationships that I really want to develop.