### Titles such as _The Storms of Cormrach Mor_.

The Storm family loses Storm Hall to an evil sorcerer intent on doing nasty things in the tombs (finding a particular item perhaps?). The sorcerer keeps the younger Storm children imprisoned in the castle for use as hostages or worse. He hangs Lord Storm from the castle walls above wave soaked rocks. A loyal retainer spirits the second eldest son to a small ready boat. A traitorous man-at-arms kills the retainer during the escape, but the boy sails off into the stormy night. Later, the boy wrecks, floating ashore more or less safely on one of the Dragons Teeth islands.

Storm’s heir is at sea with a small retinue of men. He will certainly seek to reclaim the keep and its demesne, and avenge his family, but he will need to raise a force sufficient to take the keep from the sorcerer and his minions. It will be difficult to take by force — but a small force of infiltrators might help…

Storms are frequent and enduring on this exposed rocky point of land far to the east of nearly everything on the continental mainland. Stormhold is the location of Storm Hall, the stronghold of the Storm household. The Storms have dwelt here for four generations. The first Lord Storm was the bastard son of a Kaelish lord and an Aldran slave. He made his fortune as a sea raider for some time, until he became too dangerous to keep near the Kaelish homelands of his adopted clansmen.

Homeless, Storm set up a raiding base on one of the more habitable isles in the Dragon’s Teeth and increased his fame (or notoriety) and fortune. As he raided, he learned that the population along the coast of Old Rhendar was scarce, and that it was nearly defenseless. With a force of nearly two hundred raiders, mostly bachelor Kaels and their bondsmen, he seized a strong but nearly deserted keep at Cormrach Mor, now called Stormhold, and from there he conquered and now the Storms hold are lords of a large (if unrecognized) fiefdom in the desolate east of Old Rhendar.

Storm Hall (Cormrach Mor) is a formidable castle built atop and into the rocky heights of Stormhold. The castle’s roots go deep; the previous lords of the Cormrach dug deeply, all the way down to the water, making use of the natural caves and passages to create a significant underground complex. Part of this complex is dedicated to the interment of the dead lords and ladies of the old household, and the catacombs and crypts are labyrinthine and well protected by natural barriers, magical wards, and mechanical traps. Other parts of the underground are functional parts of the keep — storage, prisons, armories, workshops, etc. — or of the harbor below.

The harbor itself is remarkable. Much of it is sheltered inside a large hollow cavern. People from the castle can use various stairs and passages (and one freight elevator) to reach this cavern. The Storms use this defensible grotto to build and provision their considerable fleet. A large chain curtain acts as a gate for watercraft, preventing invasion of the castle from below. Battlements and other fortifications in the cliffs above house ballistae and other war engines. Defenders can rain arrows, bolts, stones, and fire on attacking or intruding vessels confined between the stone breakwater and the promontory cliffs.