Long ago — very very long ago — a powerful and wholly evil sorcerer created his own realm, complete with stronghold, army, monsters, secret treasuries, and so forth. Gradually, this sorcerer overstepped his bounds and took on a realm or culture with the will to resist. Initially, the war went in favor of the sorcerer, but a young princess, who was also a priestess of a benevolent goddess, volunteered to be the lock on a prism/trap designed by a cooperation of priests of various temples and the royal wizard.

Somehow the sorcerer was lured into the trap and, through the willing sacrifice of the princess, is bound therein, for all his power unable to escape. Many of his minions were trapped with him. The sorcerer's essence is bound to a certain chamber, his only power now is a power over the minds of the susceptible, a power that grows stronger with proximity to the chamber and the vessel inside. The sorcerer’s minions are undead slaves to their master, their souls in thrall and their decayed and foul bodies doomed to wander the halls of the ancient shrine that was the site of the trap.

The spirit of the princess is also trapped. Her sacrifice was to use her essence to ward the shrine against the sorcerers escape. She has some presence in the shrine and may communicate through visions or dreams with a receptive person. The locus of her presence and the power to seal the sorcerer in the prison, is an enchanted pool and a magical font.

Consider the nature of the kingdom’s sacrifice. The king gave up his only daughter to save his land. This commitment must be renewed from time to time by a descendant of that royal line. Such has not happened for centuries, and the seals of the prison are weakening. An heir must be found, and she (yes, a virginal woman, a maiden) must be brought to the chamber of the font where, along with a brief ritual, she must shed her tears into the font, dramatically, in the presence of the princess.