This is to be a first to third level adventure on a small, remote island. A storm damages their craft, forcing adventurers into port. A longstanding conflict on the island draws the marooned PCs in as the rampaging sea creature terrorizes the isle.

A bad storm brings a ship and its passengers to port on a small and remote island. A number of shepherds and cottage farmers, as well as some townsfolk in two coastal towns, comprise the island population. The two towns occupy nearly opposite sides of the isle. The isle is hilly, has a couple of small ponds or lakes, and at least one of its valleys is fairly well wooded. Isolated sheepcotes and farms dot the lower hills along the shores and farther inland. Many of the coastal settlements are also fishing communities. Generally peaceful, there is some conflict among farming groups (ethnic differences, and territorial problems), as well as between the two towns (tolls, fishing rights, etc.).

One of the towns — the proverbial base town — is a well-reputed port of call for local merchant traders. It helps support the more legitimate local trades, fishing and farming, and acts as the cultural center for most of the island’s inhabitants. A Council of Five Elders governs the town, and there is a small cadre of about ten militia. Militia are drawn periodically from those farmers who have arms or are males capable of bearing arms. In time of serious emergency, the surrounding community could provide almost fifty men (some of whom are veterans from service abroad) for service, but only for the duration of an emergency (farming requires work). To manage the military and law enforcement concerns, the town has hired two mercenary men-at-arms from other lands. These two professional soldiers are veterans of several conflicts, and have worked together for years. Ethical and conscientious, they provide the backbone for keeping the town peaceful and safe.

The other town is notorious as a haven for pirates and smugglers; while not wholly evil, it is on the rough side. Some visitors to the isle may find this town useful, maybe even downright comfortable. Particularly the members of a number of unregistered guilds… The town government is primarily run by a strongman and his dirty dozen mercenaries, but his power is somewhat limited by an oligarchy of “merchant interests.” These interests are largely syndicated smugglers and their supporting vocations (pirates, rogues, and so forth). A dozen trained warriors are good personal and premise security, and can be somewhat intimidating, but the inhabitants of this town are not the sorts who frighten easily.

Religion on the isle is like that of the region generally: pantheistic polytheism. Town inhabitants worship, revere, respect, or revile any number of combinations of immortals. Some are atheistic or agnostic (the major civilization is very cosmopolitan). The only cleric of note on the isle is a druidic sort who tends to the needs of a number of rural shepherds and farmers. Most of the adherents to his faith are descendants of the earliest prehistoric settlers. Few of the urban townsfolk venture to the groves and stone circles.

There is a dark cult on the island of which a few of the earlier inhabitants are followers. I need to flesh this cult out some more, and possibly tie it to the ancient evil beneath the ruins. At present, the cult’s center is a series of caves near a cove on a remote shore of the island. They are led by an evil, but not particularly powerful, cleric of some sort; his reach for power may well exceed his grasp.

In addition to the normal town and country inhabitants, the isle has several other distinguished residents.

In an isolated cabin near a fast running stream lives a mage. This fellow is a healer of sorts (mostly due to his knowledge rather than his actual power), and a source of local, regional, and historical information (a sage of sorts). The mage is a good sort, and has established himself on the isle for a reason. While he pretends indifference to the small matters of island conflict and a mere sea monster, he is actually keenly interested in matters relating to the ancient ruins under which much exploration and adventuring will take place. It seems he knows (but will not divulge) much of its ancient history, and wishes to guard against the possibility of something escaping (or being released inadvertently) from that terrible place. The mage’s real abode is not the cabin; he has a sanctum complex beneath a nearby waterfall, which he enters magically.

Not far downstream from the mage’s abode is a small lake, across which there is a bog. The woman shaman Daeda dwells in there. A small, wiry woman of indeterminate age, she is a friend of the mage, and also is generally good. She is, however, guarded and reclusive. She will tolerate no harm to her bog home or to its surrounding woods, including the creatures within. Her expertise in healing exceeds the mage’s, and she even has some talent with bring people back from death if their body can be healed. She is aware of great evil beneath the ruins as well, but has no direct power to challenge it. She will, however, counter what effects she can if asked by the mage or by fellows of a victim. Her power is in shelter and repairing damage to those taken by necromantic arts and magic injury.

The monster was something originally created by the ancient evil sorcerers and bound to a special flooded chamber well beneath the original complex. The creature is unique, a combination of several sea creatures. Its creators used dark arts to make it grotesque and gargantuan. The front of the creature resembles a squid, although the skin is a tough, scaled hide. From the front of the head, four long, barbed tentacles can attack and grab prey and bring it into range of two smaller tentacles that flank a sharp, beak-like mouth. Behind the main tentacles, a shell carapace protects the head and eyes. The eyes, one on each side of the head, are somewhat recessed but are vulnerable to direct attack. The middle body is shell armored from the top to about a third of the way from the belly. The hide below the armor is scale for a bit, and then the underbelly is a soft, fleshy hide (the most vulnerable part of the creature). The creature has a fleshy tail, which like much of the rest of it is squid-like. There are no legs, as such; out of water deep enough to support its weight, the creature will flail. This means, by the way, that some way to get the beast out of deep water may be helpful for innovative adventurers who want to defeat it.

My current concept is that the storm released the creature. This means that it was somehow able to live (or at least exist) in the confines of the temple underground/underwater for many years. I may need to extend the complex for the creature to a series of underground chambers (lakes and water channels) with a supply of smaller creatures for food.

For reasons bound up in its creation, the creature is compelled to return to its lair for most of the day. It will, after the storm, come out only to prey on local shipping, first on the base town, then on the other shadier town. Eventually, if I matrix this correctly, I can get elements from both towns to cooperate in supporting the creature’s destruction.